Let's generate a component.
Let's just see what that looks like and
just generate a couple things and
just see kind of these major pieces.
And then we'll get into
component fundamentals.
Where I think probably
we'll take a break and
then we'll get into
component fundamentals.
So one of the nice things about the,
CLI, is that, you can generate,
almost anything.
And, I think it's important,
to use the generator, but also,
I would just encourage you, if you're new,
to Angular, don't use that as a crutch.
And so, it's like somebody saying,
I know JavaScript really well,
what do you use jQuery?
Well, you can understand jQuery
without understanding JavaScript.
Right even, I'm a web developer,
what do you do?
WordPress and
what they mean to say install WordPress.
And so, don't let the COI give you
a superficial understanding or
a shallow understanding of
what's actually happening.
So, I'm going to use the CLI but
really take the time to understand,
why are these pieces here and
what are they doing?
So let's do a new component.
And I'm going to, so
you can do this longhand.
So I can do anti generate component.
And I'm just gonna go items.
And I'm gonna use the D flag.
And so what this means is dry run.
So a lot of times, maybe I just,
I get the file structure wrong or
I wanna generate into something and
I mess it up.
So by using the D flag is
it's going to give you
output without actually doing anything.
So this is just a really really nice
way to just measure twice, cut once.
Right so I'm going to generate a new
component, and I'm gonna call it items.
And so you notice here,
four files, style HTML,
your spec and your component or
your TypeScript class.
So you're just gonna see this over and
over.
So once you get that, it's easy.
It's consistent.
And what it's also done is
it's updated the app module.
And so this is where I wanna step in.
And I want to talk about
what's happening here.
And close this all down and
If we look in the app module,
there's a few things
that I want to point out.
And that is two I think
really important things.
So, one we generated an item's component.
Well, what it's done is in the app module
within this empty module block here.
And so this is just essentially
taking this class here.
And it's decorating this with metadata and
it's saying, this class is a module.
And I want to within this
module declare two components.
So app component was generated, we
generated the app, but we also generated
items component and so it's adding that
to essentially this module container and
saying this is now available for
this application.
As well is we're importing
some additional modules.
So browser module, app routing module,
which has our routes, and
the browser animations module.
Now, one other piece here,
just you'll know this once and
you'll never have to touch it again.
But the question is just like how
does your application actually start?
Like, how does that work?
And so you'll notice here
in our top level module, in
this module configuration object,
we have a bootstrap property.
And it's a bootstrap app component.
And so with App module being at
the top level module or the container,
when the spins up, it's saying I'm
going to bootstrap app component.
And so,
if you go to the root of this project or I
think just write the route of source here.
We just collapse that is
you have this main TS.
And so
we won't need to get into this at all.
But this we're saying for the browser,
I want to bootstrap this module.
And so this is what kicks this off.
And from here,
just in your index dot HTML,
we have this app root.
So this is what's actually adding
that component to the stage and
then everything else attaches to that.
And so, just to kind of lock this down
where I'm going is you have a module,
which holds information about
the things that you wanna put into it,
other modules, components, services, etc.
And then for the top level module we're
just saying when we start the application,
we want to bootstrap and
this is the entry point for that.
And so
now it takes this app component, which
if we step into here you can see there's
all this HTML needs different things well,
that then captures that via
the selector and renders it.
And so
I'm starting to get into what I would,
what I'm gonna talk about
in the next module.
But it's important to
understand that you have
a module, which is denoted by mg module
that defines how Angular is
supposed to be configured.
And so you're telling Angular,
when this compiles,
these are the things you
need to be aware of.
Now there's one other thing
that I want to call out.
That is slightly confusing is that,
what do we have up here
at the top of the page?
Well, these are also modules.
But these are ES6 essential modules.
And so, you have kind of two
parallel module systems happening.
And it's really easy
sometimes to where it's like,
how come Angular can't find this thing?
I've attached it here at
the framework level, but
you haven't surfaced it
at the language level so
that it can actually be
built into your application.
And so it's really, really important
if you're new to Angular to understand
that you have two parallel kind
of module systems happening.
So one is at the language level which
is just ES6 and above, so ESNext.
And that's used for
actually managing your source code.
But then you also have mg module,
which is used
for managing and
configuring your Angular application.